we're not going to do government
operated supply chains because that's
not how we shine as a country. Our
superpower is really our private sector
and our companies. The old Steve Jobs
quote that American products enchant and
delight users around the world by the
billions. That is really is our edge as
a country. And so the answer's been
trying to work in lockstep with our
private companies and our builders to
build platforms
>> [music]
>> that are commercially viable and that
will can ultimately live outside of the
government as a private service.
The General Purpose are joined by Jacob
Helberg, the Under Secretary of State
for Economic Affairs. We spoke with
Jacob before he was confirmed in this
role and we're very excited to have him
back to discuss Pax Silica, which is a
multi-nation effort to secure the AI
supply chain for the United States and
its allies. Jacob, thanks so much for
being here. Yeah, thanks for joining us.
Thanks for having me. So, let's get
right into it. Three months ago you
announced Pax Silica,
super ambitious coalition. Can you
explain what it is and where you are in
it? Yeah, absolutely. So, I gave a
speech at the Hudson Institute that was
really meant to be our blueprint for Pax
Silica. Pax Silica is an economic
security coalition that now has 14
countries and the idea is really to have
an ecosystems based approach to our
supply chains and specifically the AI
supply chain. And in my speech at Hudson
I outlined our different lines of
efforts including our policy road maps
and our projects and
about a week and a half ago we we
basically did the first big, you know,
what would be the tech equivalent of a
product rollout where we announced a
forward deployed industrial base with
our oldest ally in Asia, the
Philippines.
We made this
arrangement with them where they are
granting us 4,000 acres which is
obviously very substantial. It's a third
of the size of Manhattan to do a very
large industrial build-out. That's
one-of-a-kind that that helps combine
the predictability and certainty of the
American common law system with the
industrial comparative advantages that
the Philippines offers. And the goal is
really to secure inputs that are vital
for our supply chains. And so we're
super excited to be here in San
Francisco talk to builders and see ways
that we can actually accelerate supply
chain security for our tech companies.
Is this set up as a special economic
zone in the Philippines or could you
tell us more about the details beyond
sort of the legal side that you
mentioned? Yeah, absolutely. So it So
right now the there are two phases to
the plan. The first phase is
the State Department taking into custody
the the zone. We we're we are referring
to it as an economic security zone
because
it is a very unique type of of
arrangement. The State Department has
authorities to take in
land and property into custody sort of
how foreign governments gift the State
Department counselors and consulates and
embassies. It's very unique to do a gift
of 4,000 acres, but fortunately there's
no statutory limits on how big or small
property can be. And so that's phase
one. So right now it's actually
diplomatic property that is effectively,
you know, governed by the same laws as
as our embassies are.
Phase two will be the long-term
development and build-out of the land.
And so we are going to spend we have two
years a two-year window to negotiate the
details with our Filipino counterparts
on
the investor protections that will apply
to the land, the tax taxation regimes,
and
and all of the different, you know,
legal safeguards that investors will be
able to benefit from from for the long
term. And the goal is within that
two-year window to actually have a
long-term framework that will be multi
multiple decades. It's it amazing
innovation. Are there specific domains
that you think makes sense to invest in
there from a manufacturing, mineral
processing, whatever it is perspective
now?
Yeah, so the goal is really to actually
test
a concept that could potentially be
replicable. I mean, right now if you
know, when we think about the AI supply
chain, a lot of people just think of
chips, but the reality is that the AI
supply chain actually includes thousands
of inputs like
precision reducers and server motors and
rare earth magnets and actuators and our
concentration risk as a country is
incredibly high for basically all of
those inputs. And so, the goal is to
identify key geographies that actually
have
industrial, you know, strengths and
bring unique capabilities to the table
that could actually help us move the
needle meaningfully in in, you know,
different segments of the supply chain.
So, the Philippines already has a native
indigenous manufacturing ecosystem
that's already quite deep. It's It's our
oldest ally in Asia. So, we have a very
deep values alignment with the
Philippines and so, we think that the
nexus between the values alignment
combined with their industrial
advantages actually makes for a very
compelling value proposition for a lot
of companies. We're talking with a
number of companies focused on the
robotics supply chain.
As you guys know living out here and I'm
sure you guys include robotics companies
in your portfolio. But the robotics
supply chain robotics is an incredibly
promising industry
that really is poised to change a lot of
things in in manufacturing as well as in
people's daily lives and the supply
chain is right now completely dominated
by China. And so, that's an that's an
area where that's you know, where we're
particularly interested in potentially
making a bet on.
When most people hear economic security
policy, one of the first things they
think of is the Belt and Road
Initiative. How would you contrast, you
know, your strategy and the State
Department's strategy here with that
approach? Yeah, so that's such a great
question. And I think, you know, one of
the one of the benefits that we've been
able to um leverage uh developing the
strategy today
>> [clears throat]
>> is the ability to study 25 years of, you
know, of China's Belt and Road
Initiative, how they've done what
they've done, you know, what's worked,
what hasn't worked. And
>> [clears throat]
>> you know, fundamentally You want to
explain what that is, too, for our
audience?
>> Yeah, so the Belt and Road Initiative is
a very, very large foreign policy
project of the Chinese government that
basically involved using state-owned
enterprises that are essentially
extensions of the government to carry
out massive infrastructure projects
overseas. And the idea is using
infrastructure projects as a tool of
foreign policy to achieve foreign policy
outcomes.
>> was the big build-outs, for example, in
Africa that
>> Exactly. did it in a variety of
countries there. That's right. So,
whether it's creating mines or, you
know, processing facilities, a lot of
the times it involved building out, you
know, very big roads, sometimes bridges,
a lot of the times it included railways.
Um and [clears throat]
and fundamentally what it was was
state-owned enterprises um
building government-operated railways,
government, you know, built roads and
bridges. And the Chinese government, by
virtue of its system, really built all
of this in-house. Which for us, you
know, when we think about how should we
we want to secure supply chains, we need
to make a lot of investments, you know,
that um
that are, you know, touch upon these
kinds of industrial capabilities, but as
Americans, we're not going to do this
in-house inside of the government.
>> effects of this for China was basically
both building out their industrial base,
but then also securing natural resources
in some of these countries.
>> Exactly. they were able to build a
network that ensured that their
factories in China had all the inputs um
in order to actually really, you know,
thrive. And and you know, Shenzhen today
is really, you know, the world's factory
floor um because they have deep
relationships with suppliers and
vendors, you know, on every continent,
basically. Um and the infrastructure
that they leverage allows them to get
access in a way that's very very
competitive. So, the question for us is,
you know, how do we compete in that
landscape at a time when we want to
re-industrialize? And the answer is
we're not going to do
government-operated supply chains
because that's not how we shine as a
country. And I the, you know, sort of
where we've landed is
our superpower is really our private
sector and our companies. And it's sort
of the old Steve Jobs quote that, you
know, American products enchant and
delight users around the world by the
billions, and that's how with you know,
that is really is our edge as a country.
And so, how do we, you know, adopt a
product-based, a product-centric
approach to, you know, our foreign
policy where we can actually um use that
kind of approach to to achieve foreign
policy outcomes. And and what we've
done, so that's very much sort of the
lens of how we've, you know, decided to
focus
our economic security strategy.
Um the answer's been trying
[clears throat] to work in lockstep with
our private and our builders to build
platforms that are commercially viable
and that will can ultimately live
outside of the government as a private
service. And so, the forward-deployed
industrial base is meant to be a
platform uh for pri- for private
investment that will be viable for the
long term. It's the first of its kind.
We're thinking about making a big play
in the logistics space uh in partnership
with um large, you know, corporates um
and in June
we're we're looking at potentially doing
a broader rollout where we're going to
roll out four or five different big
lines of effort. You guys are both
invited to Washington for it. And and so
you know, having a product based
approach is very much how we're thinking
about it. As somebody who's done a deep
study of the pros and cons of Belt and
Road,
there's obviously access to
infrastructure and inputs as
some dimension of success here. What's
been the failure point for Belt and
Road? Well, the failure point is, you
know, so first of all, obviously
>> [clears throat]
>> some of the projects, you know, have
been useful for China.
There is there's a lot of waste in the
Belt and Road initiative and, you know,
mainly it's because whenever you have,
you know, central planning and and
really government bureaucrats
effectively, you know, allocating large
pools of capital. There's a lot of waste
because vendors, you know, massively
overcharge things.
There's a lot of waste because there's a
lot of roads to nowhere. Um
And and what happens is, you know, China
will basically deploy capital to its own
companies that then, you know, basically
write IOUs to the host country.
And the host country realizes that you
know, they they you know, they've gained
a reputation for these projects have
gained a reputation for being debt trap
because
China will say, you know, we'll build a
road and, you know, as a loan except the
company building the road is Chinese and
so China can basically decide, you know,
what the price is and as you guys know,
you know, when you build a house or when
you do any construction project, a lot
of projects run over budget a lot and
so, you know, when a host country thinks
it's taking on, you know, X
[clears throat] million dollars in
liabilities and it actually ends up
being 10 X
Um that's when they kind of end up in
quicksand. And so the Belt and Road
Initiative has really garnered a
reputation for
um
really being a tool of political
leverage that um a lot of countries are
still digging themselves out of. And so
versus one of partnership.
>> Exactly. Versus one where it's positive
sum. I think a lot of countries don't
feel like they have enough upside in it.
It is Chinese workers, Chinese
companies, you know, and a lot of the
times it's Chinese equity because the
debt converts to equity if, you know,
the host country defaults.
They do a lot of the times. And so, you
know, we we're approaching it totally
differently. And because we're
approaching it by putting our companies
in the driver's seat,
um it's actually, you know, in in a lot
of ways it's much more ethical because
um because the deal is structured in a
way that's really meant to be
um you know, a a true joint venture. And
and one that will be optimized for
commercial viability, not just, you
know, for political purposes.
When you think about the 14 countries
that are already part of Pax Silicon or
uh you know, this as a potential
blueprint for others to be involved in
American foreign deployed industrial
bases, like what's the value prop for
them?
So the value prop is um one of the
amazing things that we're seeing is
obviously the AI revolution is leading
to huge growth. I mean, despite the
volatility in the energy markets, um
you know, the American economy has been
proven incredibly resilient. And a big
part of that is AI being this
incredible, you know, incredibly strong
economic force that is already fueling
over a third of our economic GDP growth
right here in the US.
Overseas, we're leading we're seeing
that growth translate to record demands
for copper, record demands for cobalt,
record demands for, you know, lots of
different inputs that go into data
centers and
and you know, record demand for
electricians and all the rest. And so,
the takeaway for a lot of these
countries is
if they find ways of actually
having a bigger part and a bigger stake
in that supply chain at different
layers, layers that make sense for their
companies and their economy, they can
actually derive a lot of economic growth
from that revolution because, you know,
the amazing thing about the tech
industry, especially when we go through
these inflection points,
as you guys know, is the pie grows
really fast. And so, it's really not
zero-sum, which actually
makes it
incredibly conducive to forge very
mutually beneficial partnerships because
we're not approaching it as, you know,
what I gain, someone else loses. It's
actually because the pie is growing,
we're partnering together. And this is
very much part of the ethos of how we're
partnering with the Philippines.
We we are developing a partnership where
we both have skin in the game and we
both share in the upside of success. And
so, you know, risk is evenly allocated
and and and so is upside. And so,
ultimately, it's very much a win-win
proposition. How do you think about the
areas where you want to partner with
other countries versus have things
happen in the US? I know, for example,
there's been a long-standing effort
to bring back fabs and the ability to
manufacture semiconductors at sort of
state-of-the-art
linewidths and everything else in the
US. That hasn't quite happened yet. I
know there's active efforts to do that.
What do you think is important to do in
the US itself versus to partner with
other countries and how do you figure
out what goes where? Yeah, so that is
such a great question. And I think, you
know,
I I would answer that question a few
different parts, but the first part is
maybe starting with some stats and we
America
consumes accounts for, you know,
somewhere in the neighborhood between 20
and 30% of global consumption on any
given quarter. It's obviously huge cuz
we're 4% of the world's population, but
we're basically a fourth to a third of
the world's total consumption. Um our
production levels
>> or other things like that?
>> other things than Celsius uh or
[laughter] no-name companies, you know.
Um uh we consume a lot of stuff. I mean,
Americans like to consume. And you know,
we we're a risk-taking culture, we're a
high-consumption society.
And um
and our production levels uh are not 20
or 30%. We produce a lot less than that.
And so, part of what we're seeing is if
we narrow the gap between what we
between what we consume and what we
produce, we will reindustrialize America
because that will be a massive
reindustrialization plan that will
inevitably include a lot of, you know,
semi-autonomy or full autonomy. And
because if we industrialize an economy
where unemployment's already at 4%, it
will have to be, you know, very, very
autonomous, which is possible. Singapore
has proven that that's possible. They
have highly autonomous ports, you know,
factories.
Um
and um and so that, you know, so that's
number one. Then there's the question
of, you know, what happens with the
other 70% of the world's consumption
that is currently, you know, mostly
concentrated in China. And um and so the
idea is if we want to have a supply
chain system where America and its
allies in the global economy has access
to suppliers that are, you know, more
evenly distributed, that are reliable,
trustworthy, you know, transparent. Um I
think a lot of countries actually really
see that as a business opportunity for
them to also be able to have, you know,
more production in their respective
regions. And so, part of the idea for
the forward-deployed industrial base and
these economic security zones is
actually to have a hub-based approach
where we can leverage the industrial
attributes. So, for example, if regions
have
a lot of rare earth minerals, or, you
know, for example, in the case of the
Philippines, a very deep indigenous
manufacturing ecosystem, you know,
things that they're really good at, or
have unique advantages in, we can
leverage that to to really help um
capitalize on that and and make sure
that they can actually contribute to the
supply chains for areas where they're
that they're really good in. Um and and
ultimately, you know, help foster
regional hubs um because, you know, the
population of Africa, for example, is
growing massively. The um you know,
South America is is also growing very,
very quickly, you know, places like
Brazil, Argentina. Um and so, I think
having a hub-based approach is very
promising. And ultimately, America is,
you know, remains the economic engine uh
uh of the global economy. And so, um I
think the parts that we re-industrialize
here will definitely be the biggest
driving forces. And and you're totally
right. I mean, we the the effort to uh
bring back semiconductor fab production
here is already well underway. And so,
that will continue. Um
It's already in flight, and there's a
whole host of reasons why it wouldn't
necessarily make sense to try to
replicate that elsewhere, because it's
highly technical. The The global talent
supply of of of talent available in that
area is very finite and limited. Uh and
it's also extremely capital intensive.
So, it wouldn't make sense to, you know,
replicate that elsewhere before it's
finished here. Um but, [clears throat]
you know, the the um
unfortunate and, you know, good news is
um the we, you know, the supply chain is
vast, and uh and there's a lot of things
that still need to be built. And so, the
world, I think, is actually really,
really ripe with opportunity in that
sense.
>> And how do you think about other inputs
in into what you're talking about? So,
for example, you mentioned rare earth
magnets.
And my sense, and I haven't verified
this, so please correct me if it's
wrong, is that, you know, the air A,
rare earths are not actually rare.
Um B, the total market size is in the
few billion dollars a year. And C, that
market is heavily subsidized by China in
order to basically control supply. Yeah.
It's sort of a leverage a lever from
like a political basis. And so, are
there considerations around other
mechanisms that the government can use?
I know there are there have been, but
I'd be loved to loved to hear um
how uh you all are thinking about other
aspects of the supply chain that may be
raw materials, that may be heavily
subsidized or propped up by foreign
governments, etc. And how we should
address those areas in in addition.
Absolutely. And so, um and so you're
exactly right. Uh the total, you know,
the the really interesting thing about
rare earths is, obviously as you point
out, um they're not that rare. I think,
you know, some people have said that you
they're everywhere. It's not totally
true either. I mean, they they're not
everywhere, but uh but they're in lots
of different places. I think they the
sort of key thing is
uh that really drives, you know, the
economics of the of those industries, is
how much energy do you need to pump into
the ground in order to extract a given
mineral at a given, you know, quality
grade. Uh and then what's actually
really rare is the refining process
because the number of refined or the
number of processing facilities for
these minerals is
uh very very limited outside of China.
They exist, but in very limited, you
know, quantities.
And um and you're right. And China
obviously subsidizes the hell out of
them. Um and so um and so it's it's very
exciting to be able to, you know, share
uh with you on the on that that um the
Trump administration's actually really
had a very very comprehensive approach.
I mean, we've been really focused on the
mineral security issue pretty much since
day one of the administration. We did
the largest um critical minerals summit
in the in the history of the State
Department um in February on February
4th with over 55 countries that
participated, we signed critical mineral
MOU deals with dozens of countries who
have, you know, lots of different kinds
of minerals. And now one of the things
that we're doing and and you know, have
been aggressively pursued across the
administration is
um allocating capital and investments in
into a lot of these projects to make
sure that they have access to the
resources to expand production. So now
that's on the supply side. On the demand
side, the administration is hard at work
at negotiating deals with countries to
address the pricing issue. Because
as you guys know from the businesses
that you invest in, you can invest a lot
of money in a startup, but ultimately a
lot of the economics of, you know,
whether a company can be viable is
really based on the price, you know,
that that company is able to provide a
service for. And so the pricing
mechanism is really really central to
unlocking long-term commercial
viability. And I'm incredibly confident
that we actually will resolve the
pricing issue for the minerals market
before the end of this administration.
You mentioned that you are um you know,
directly investing in domains of
importance where you're trying to like
trigger better
supply capability
um with us and allies. Like how do you
think of the role of
you know, asking for a friend, private
capital in these initiatives?
Yeah, so I think I mean, you guys have
such an important role to play mainly
because
um
>> [laughter]
>> you know, there so much of you know,
whether a project materializes or not,
as you [clears throat] guys know, it
hinges on execution, you know, capacity.
Um
can a company really execute on a very
aggressive ambitious plan? And one of
the amazing superpowers of the venture
capital business is you know, you guys
are kind of hardwired to be able to
assess a lot of the personality
attributes of founders and and operators
to to tell you know, some of the things
that are harder to read from a deck or
spreadsheet
on does this person really have you
know, what it takes to be able to
execute you know, and address execution
risk you know, underlying scientific
risk you know, all the different risks
that inevitably exist in any company
um and so and so the feedback um and so
we actually would really love for the
venture capital ecosystem to help be
part of the solution because I think you
know, you guys are better positioned to
assess you know, who are the best
players in the space
um and and we can take that you know, as
an important signal to help inform you
know, capital allocations that we make
on the government side to make sure that
we allocate money in the right places
um and in the most efficient way
possible especially you know, as good
stewards of taxpayer money.
The other thing is I think beyond sort
of assessing you know, who the best
players are I think on the innovation
side. I mean, there's a number of really
great companies especially out here in
the Bay Area who are working on new
materials and you know, um rare earth
free you know, magnets uh and and lots
of other kinds of innovations and and I
think that's where we have you know,
there's a lot of room and potential for
potentially coming out with um
you know, a rabbit out of a hat
situation where we somehow end up
solving this issue in a way that was
completely unanticipated through
innovation and so um and that will
ultimately be a solution that will
really be born out of the tech industry
not the government um and so you know,
that uh
those are things that we obviously want
to be attuned to and help be supportive
in any way we can. When you think about
uh mentioned limited bandwidth of course
and economic security in the AI supply
chain being an enormous topic. Like, how
do you think about prioritizing
27, 28 versus five years out? Because
this is something we we think about as
well where, you know, if you look at
next gen lithography and robotics and
let's say chip new new semis designs,
for example. There are some longer-term
plays that are more capital intensive
and so we balance our our views on that
and nuclear and such with software that
is going to ship this year.
>> Uh-huh.
Yeah, one of the approaches that we
So I think I mean one of the approaches
that the administration's taken that,
you know, hopefully will will really be
the foundation for a lot of, you know,
short-term change as well as just
um provide long-term support is helping
shape the environment, you know,
creating a macro environment that
basically makes innovation, iteration of
innovations as well as deployment of
innovations a lot easier and less
expensive. So the [clears throat]
administration's approach to expanding
our domestic energy supply is, you know,
obviously part of that expanding
nuclear. You know, the administration's
really undertaken a lot of efforts to
basically cut red tape, accelerate the
the deployment of American nuclear
energy and from memory, [clears throat]
it was actually one of the first
executive orders that the president
signed that where they said that they
wanted to quadruple our domestic nuclear
supply
um
as well as
you know, a lot of actions to
deregulate. The one big beautiful bill
included a lot of tax incentives. And
through the State Department,
we we're looking to help you know, be
play constructive part in shaping that
environment by creating these evergreen,
you know, systems basically like the
forward to play like the forward
deployed industrial base that will be a
long-term platform. And hopefully a
replicable one that we could pursue in
other geogra in in other geographies.
And the idea is that for the long term,
you know, our technology companies will
have these platforms to operate in that
will provide, you know, that will really
be a competitive strategic edge
that they can use to build very, very
quickly and and actually get to market
faster. How do you think about in
general this um
uh transitioning through
administrations? So, you mentioned a
number of executive orders.
Uh typically when an administration
shifts, um you end up with a lot of
those executive orders undone in both
directions, right? Somebody comes in and
they kind of cancel a bunch of executive
orders that were passed or signed by the
prior administration and they write a
bunch of other ones that may be at odds
with them.
And so, often the key is legislation or
other approaches.
How do you view uh making this stick if
you think it's so important for our
country's future? Well, there are some
things that I think will be hard to
undo. I mean, it's, you know, tax reform
is very sticky. Um and so,
um
all you know, one of the interesting
attributes about the the my role at the
State Department is we're actually not
allowed to comment on
um electoral politics.
>> Yeah. Um so, it's kind of this
interesting, you know,
um Now, so I guess ignoring
>> statutory limitation that we're subject
to. Oh, when you um we we have the
audience of uh a lot of folks in the AI
ecosystem, but also a lot of folks in
the general business and investing
ecosystem of companies of different
scale. Uh what do you think like
American business people and
entrepreneurs should know about these
policies in terms of how they affect
them?
The the goal of Pax Silicon is we want
to use it as a platform to expand market
access for our companies.
Um because even amongst our allies,
sometimes our companies, you know, face
a lot of hurdles with exporting their
products and services. So, we want to
hear feedback from them on, you know,
what are what's working and what's not
working in places like Japan, South
Korea, India, and things [clears throat]
that we could do better in the policy
making space to make sure that we can
actually make, you know, um
provide some support for our companies
to be more competitive in those markets.
Uh we also want to hear, you know, it's
been great to already get a lot of
feedback from a number of different
companies on partnerships that are
already in flight and opportunities that
they see on the table um on the supply
chain security side. So, there's a lot
of cross-pollination and partnerships
that are already being forged between
American companies and companies in
India, in Japan, in South Korea, even in
Singapore. And so,
understanding those partnerships helps
us really understand how, you know,
executives are thinking about their
supply chain strategy. Everyone
uniformly is obviously thinking about
ways of having is of being much more
deliberate about their supply chain
decisions in ways that factor in the
realities of, you know, the need to not
be overexposed to China because of the
political dynamics at work. And so,
understanding where they see
opportunities for what segments of their
supply chain helps us get a better
understanding of what's working and what
can we help grow, you know, as quickly
as possible at scale. And so, that part
is is very useful. So, I would say
expanded market access,
um strategic partnership opportunities
on the supply chain side, and um and
then we also want to make sure that we
um
actually create a space where we can
talk about important intellectual
property um
intellectual property conversations. Um
you guys are obviously very involved in
the AI industry, and so I'm sure you've
been uh
you know, spending a lot of time
thinking about the whole model
distillation debate, which is super
important to actually protect the
economic value of these hundreds of
billions of dollars in investments in AI
companies. And so, we, you know, that
remains a really important unresolved
area of policy
where I think, you know, getting the
input from the builders who are the
closest to the development of this
technology is super important.
When we last spoke to you on No Priors,
you were just beginning your tenure at
the State Department. What is the
biggest surprise been? You've been very
active since you started.
Well, I the biggest surprise is honestly
how entrepreneurial,
it's the the Trump administration has
been because I think the stereotype for
people who work outside of the
government is usually really focuses on,
you know, this idea that the government
is super bureaucratic. And obviously,
that's not to say that the government is
a
massive enterprise.
It lots and lots of, you know,
people involved, lots of processes. Um
but the the really extraordinary thing
is we have a president who, you know,
also spent most of his life in the
private sector and who really likes
speed. I mean, you know, the running
joke,
especially, you know, with our current
counterparts overseas that deal with the
Trump administration is that we like to
move in Trump time
because, you know, the president, when
he likes something, he wants it
yesterday.
And and so, that part's really been
amazing because
the appetite to try new things and the
appetite for risk and and to move
really, really fast is highly unusual
by government standards and really speak
for the philosophy that President Trump
brings to brings to bear in the Oval
Office. And so, that part's really been
extraordinary. That combined with the
the really great leadership that we've
we've able to benefit from at the
cabinet level, from Secretary Besson,
Secretary Lutnick, Secretary Rubio,
um Secretary Burgum, who you know, it's
an incredibly collegial team. And um and
they really, you know, operate with a
level of professionalism that's been
incredibly inspiring for people like me
in the sub-cabinet
um to be able to benefit from and and
also, you know, work very constructively
with our bureaus.
One um thing that you've said recently
uh surprised me just in phrasing, you
referred to America as a global
underdog, I I believe. Um that's not the
way I think of America. Can you explain
yourself?
Yeah, so I think, you know, it's
interesting because I think um the US
[clears throat] often thinks of itself
as um
the navy and, you know, versus a pirate.
Versus a pirate. And so, you know,
Allison Graham uh wrote this book years
ago
>> [clears throat]
>> um
uh called the Thucydides Trap, where he
kind of characterized America as the
established power and he characterized
China as the rising power.
And and actually think, you know, one of
the really big flaws in that whole line
of thinking is
>> [clears throat]
>> I really wouldn't say we're an
established power because I think for
most of our history, I mean, one of the
things that really makes America quite
unique and and very different is from
[clears throat]
the earliest days of our founding, we've
always been a nation of underdogs. We
started out as 13, you know,
uh you know, disorganized, you know,
unruly colonies, you know, rebelling
against an empire of polite society and,
you know, the educated expert class.
Um and um who said that, you know, we
our project as a republic would never
succeed. And
if there really is one through line uh
across our history is
almost any decade in, you know, the
history of our country, there have been,
you know, a the a class [clears throat]
of experts that predicted, you know, our
decline, or you know, that we've reached
the limits of our power, whether it was
the great financial crash, whether it
was the Iraq war, the first and second
oil crisis, you know, the Vietnam war,
you name it. And, you know, the amazing
thing is, um, Americans perform really,
really well when, you know, we feel like
our backs are against the wall and it's
crunch time. I mean, I'm sure you'll
remember during COVID, there were these
very dramatic, you know, Atlantic
magazine covers about the great
unraveling of America. And, against the
odds of, you know, everyone in the
mainstream press, we came out with a
with a vaccine in under a year that
actually performed much, much better
than every other alternative out there.
And came out of COVID much earlier.
China, obviously, was bogged down in its
zero COVID policy, the effects of which
it's still feeling today. And so, the
[clears throat] reason I say this is
because, I think, you know, culturally,
it's something that makes America very,
very unique. And I think it's something
that really hits close to home for
Silicon Valley because it really Silicon
Valley embodies, you know, the
quintessence of the underdog mentality.
Every founder
>> soul.
>> Yeah, every founder started out, you
know, as having a contrarian idea that
was kind of seen as heretical by, you
know, the expert class, you know, the
sort of polished Harvard professors of
the world that think that, you know,
they sort of have these well-founded
sign, you know, sciences. And, you know,
you have people who, you know, some of
them are dropouts, they sort of, you
know, dare [clears throat] to question,
you know, old orthodoxies, and, you
know, they hear no 45 times before
getting to a yes, and they keep going.
And and so, it really is, you know, part
of the DNA of, you know, what makes a
founder a really great founder. And so,
I and and I think it's it really is that
kind of spirit that that new frontier
mentality that makes Silicon Valley
unique, but that has really, you know,
characterized America as as a nation,
that's allowed us to always bounce back
whenever we we've experienced a setback.
And so, it makes me really, you know, um
optimistic about the future of our
country. And And I think, you know, my
message to
founders, you know, executives in
Silicon Valley as well as our partners
overseas is
I think that is the very That's the kind
of spirit we want and are looking for um
when we want to partner with people.
But, and and it's also the kind of of
ethos that people should expect from us,
you know, when they when they when they
ask themselves, you know, what can I
expect from Americans versus you know,
executives [clears throat] from another
country, um say China. And And I think
the answer is, you know, with America a
lot of the times, it's very positive sum
because our companies already work on
positive sum partnerships all around the
world. And, you know, it it will involve
a lot of tenacity and creative thinking.
And that's how American founders work.
Thanks so much for joining us today. No,
no. Thank you. Thanks. Thanks for doing
this follow-up.
Find us on Twitter at No Priors Pod.
[music] Subscribe to our YouTube channel
if you want to see our faces. Follow the
show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or
wherever you listen. That way you get a
new episode every week. And sign up for
emails or find transcripts for every
episode at no-priors.com.